1. 
Flying a glider over Boulder, Colorado (2015)
Upon immigrating to the US, it occurred to me that learning to fly had suddenly become feasible.  I visited a local airport and met an older pilot who was willing to instruct me.  We spent months working on the ground and in the air, until I passed my check-ride in 1999.  Since then, I've savoured every chance to fly that I could manage.  Between these opportunities, I read on flight theories, radios and navigation, history, literature and meteorology until the next chance arises.

2. 
The celestial equator over Deal Test Site, NJ, facing east (2017)
The practice of navigation is a good way to stay engaged with flying and sailing while not piloting a vessel.  More than just a substitute activity, it fills me with a profound sense of awe.  Celestial navigation takes time to master and I still have plenty left to learn, but already it's easy to wonder at the oceanic expanses of time and space in which we live.  Chances to navigate vessels are scarce, but practicing at home only takes a sextant, pen, paper, a watch and logarithm tables.

3. 
At anchor in Anse a Colombier, FWI (2014)
My friend Andrew and I began sailing together in 2007.  It's comparable to flying, but was more practical and affordable once I had moved to New York City.  Since then, I've had the opportunity to crew on boat deliveries to Massachusets and regattas in the Netherlands Antilles.  For eight years, my own boat, an old Pearson sloop, gave me countless hours of headache, heartbreak and joy.  Like flying, chances to sail are scarce, but my fascination with it fills days and nights worth of time with reading, projects, preparation and dreaming.

4. 
Univ. of Colorado Water Polo team, celebrating the regional championship in Tucson, AZ (2001)
Like many others in university, a significant portion of my treasured memories were formed in organizations with fellow students.  The relationships from our water polo team have lasted and grown over the years.  Seeing team mates start families and navigate careers continues to give me profound joy.  When the opportunity arises, I visit them to get back in the water or to catch up over dinner.

5. 
Seared skipjack, prepared for my wife, parents and friends (2015)
Soon after moving from Tokyo at a young age, I began to work in a Japanese restaurant.  At first, I had simple tasks in the kitchen.  Over the years, I was taught more and began to take on greater responsibilities.  Before long, I was comfortable in the kitchen preparing dinners for our wonderful guests.  All that my colleagues taught me has carried forward into the rest of my life and I continue to take pleasure in working in the kitchen at home.  I am happy to be able to share this with friends and famly.
Pictured here is skipjack, for which the IUCN conservation status is currently Least Concern.

6. 
From left to right, my wife Jenny and daughters, Carolina and Isabel (2016)
My most important responsibility is to my wife and daughters.  When they can be involved with other aspects of my personal life, I take joy in including them or teaching them about what I'm doing.  I look forward with my wife to seeing our daughters grow and develop their own lives and personalities.




Hachijo. 
Preparing for nightfall in the Philippine Sea, Hachijo Island, Japan (2016)
The practice of navigation is a fulfilling way to stay engaged with flying and sailing while not actively piloting a vessel.  More than just a substitute activity, it fills me with a profound sense of awe.  Celestial navigation takes years to master; I still have a long way to go, but even now it's difficult not to wonder at the oceanic expanses of time and space in which we live.  Chances to navigate a vessel may be scarce, but practicing at home only takes a sextant, pen, paper and a watch.

