1. 
Flying a glider over Boulder, Colorado (2015)
Upon immigrating to the US, it occurred to me that learning to fly had suddenly become feasible.  I visited a local airport and met an older pilot who was willing to instruct me.  We spent months working on the ground and in the air, until I passed my check-ride in 1999.  Since then, I've savoured every chance to fly that I could manage.  Between these opportunities, I read on flight theories, radios and navigation, history, literature and meteorology until the next chance arises.

2. 
Preparing for nightfall in the Philippine Sea, Hachijo Island, Japan (2016)
The practice of navigation is a fulfilling way of staying enganged with flying and sailing while I'm not actively piloting a vessel.  More than just a substitute activity, though, it's able to fill me with a feeling of awe that might fairly be described as religious.  Celestial navigation is an art tricky enough to take years to master.  I still have a long way to go.  Along the way, it's difficult not to wonder at the oceanic expanses of time and space in which we exist.  I may not often be navigating through the air or on the water, but I can frequently plot my position with a sextant while at home or travelling.

3. 
At anchor in Anse a Colombier, FWI (2014)
My good friend Andrew and I began sailing together in 2007.  It was a comparable pursuit to flying, but more practical and affordable now that I had moved to New York City.  Since then, I've had the opportunity to serve as crew for boat deliveries to Massachusets and regattas in the Netherlands Antilles.  For eight years, my own boat, an old Pearson sloop, gave me countless hours of headache, heartbreak and joy.  Like flying, chances to actually sail are scarce, but my fascination with it fills days and nights worth of time with reading, projects, preparation and dreaming.

4. 
Univ. of Colorado Water Polo team, celebrating the regional championship in Tucson, AZ (2001)
Like many others in university, a significant portion of my treasured memories were formed in organizations with fellow students.  The relationships from our water polo team have lasted and grown over the years.  Seeing team mates start families and navigate careers continues to give me profound joy.  When the opportunity arises, I visit them to get back in the water or to catch up over dinner.

5. 
Seared skipjack, prepared for my wife, parents and friends (2015)
Soon after moving from Tokyo, I began to work at a young age with a Japanese restaurant.  At first, I was given the simplest jobs such as clearing tables and basic tasks in the kitchen.  Over several years, I was taught more and began to take on a greater range of responsibilities.  Before I knew it, I became comfortable in the kitchen and was preparing an array of dishes and specialties.  The kitchen mentality my colleagues taught me has carried forward into the rest of my life and I continue to take pleasure in working in the kitchen at home.  I am very happy to be able to share this with friends and famly.
Pictured here is skipjack, for which the IUCN conservation status is currently Least Concern.

6. 
From left to right, my wife Jenny and daughters, Carolina and Isabel (2016)
My most important responsibility is to my wife and daughters.  When they can be involved with other aspects of my personal life, I take the time to include them or teach them what I'm doing.  I look forward to seeing our daughters grow and develop their own lives and personalities.

